## # Deploying Contract With CREATE2 on Celo without inline Assembly


## Introduction

This article is based on submission done by [Blackadm](https://dacade.org/communities/celo/courses/celo-tut-101/challenges/2f141e8b-104a-4b29-9a23-44f424b52695/submissions/3ace8587-b52a-4553-a408-b93f5752f4ba). It is written to update readers/users on the other method for using create2.  Solidity evolves over time, and there may be changes or updates to the language that introduce new features or keywords which sometimes developers don't get to know about on time.


## Objective

To introduce user to the new method of using create2 opcode without the use of inline assembly, which is shorter and faster to implement.

## Prerequisites

Before you start reading this article you are expected to have read fully and understand the article written by blackadam [Blackadm](https://github.com/Ultra-Tech-code/Deploying-contract-with-create2-on-celo) .

## How to use new create2 opcode
The address of Smart Contracts is normally created by taking the deployersAddress and the nonce. The nonce is ever increasing, but with CREATE2 there's no nonce, instead a salt. The salt can be defined by the user.

To use the new create2 opcode, we need to define two parameters: The **contract**, a unique **salt** value. The **contract** is the contract that is to be deployed, always imported to the factory contract. The **salt** value is a random number that is generated by the developer. 

Majority of everythings that will be needed has been talked about extensively by the article recommended above. I will go straight to the implementation of the new create2.


## tutorial
For this tutorial, we'll need to To create these two contracts files:

- Factory contract file
- TestContract contract file

#### Factory Contract Explained

```solidity

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.10;


import "./TestContract.sol";

contract Factory {

    /**
     * @notice  . A function to Get the address of a contract
     * @dev     . returns an address
     * @param   _owner  . An address[TestContract constructor arguments]
     * @param   _walletname  . A string[TestContract constructor arguments]
     * @param   _salt. A unique uint256 used to precompute an address
    */
    function createContract(
        address _owner,
        string memory _walletname,
        uint _salt
    ) public payable returns (address deployedContract) {
        bytes32 salted = bytes32(_salt);

        deployedContract = address(new TestContract{salt: salted}(_owner, _walletname));
    }


    /**
     * @notice  . A function to Compute address of the contract to be deployed
     * @dev     . returns address where the contract will deployed to if deployed with create2 new opcode
     * @param   _salt: unique uin256 used to precompute an address
    */
    function getAddress(uint _salt, bytes memory bytecode) public view returns (address) {
         bytes32 salt = bytes32(_salt);

        address predictedAddress = address(uint160(uint(keccak256(
            abi.encodePacked(
                bytes1(0xff),
                address(this), 
                salt, 
                keccak256(bytecode) 
            )
        ))));
      
        return predictedAddress;
    }
}


```

The Breakdown of the contract:

- The License identifier was declared
- The Solidity version was declared also
- The contract that we are deploying (Testcontract) is imported.

- `createContract()` Function deploys the contract and returns the address of the deployed contract. it takes in the prameter required by the Testcontract. and a _salt value.
Here, the `new` opcode is used to deploy the contract instead of the inline assembly code used in the old create2. check [this](https://github.com/Ultra-Tech-code/Deploying-contract-with-create2-on-celo/#factory-contract-explained) to understand better.

>**_Note_**: The salt value is a uint256 value. which is converted to bytes32 inside the `createContract` function.

- `getAddress()` Function has been explained by the article recommended. 
>**_Note_**: The salt value passed in here is a uint256 value. which is converted to bytes32 inside the function.

All explanation about the `getContractBytecode()` and `getAddress()` function has been talked about extensively in the prerequisite article. kindly check it out again.


#### TestContract Explained
revert to the prequisite article. [here](https://github.com/Ultra-Tech-code/Deploying-contract-with-create2-on-celo/#testcontract-explained)

